Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to add a color picker to our custom button block.
Let's jump into the action.
And actually, super quickly before we add the color picker, I do want to fix a bug that we should
have addressed in the previous video.
Essentially, if you add a button and do not give it a link value.
So let me show you what I'm referring to.
If I delete this instance of my button and then add in a new instance of the button and say, learn
more.
But I don't bother to click this icon to actually assign a link value and then I click Save.
Well, you might expect that the button would appear on the front end.
It just wouldn't take you anywhere if you click on it.
However, if I refresh the button doesn't appear at all.
I'm sure there are many different ways you could fix this issue, but let me show you what I would do.
So within our blocks, in our generic button, yes, the issue has to do with our save component.
Essentially, we're outputting this link element only if you haven't selected a link object yet, this
would be trying to use a value that doesn't exist.
Now.
Again, there's probably ten different ways you could solve this issue.
I'm sure you could get creative with the G6 here, but what I'll do to fix this is just up in our attributes
for the link object attribute.
Let's just give it some karma a default value of an object with just a property called URL and have
it just be an empty string of text so we can save this file.
Make sure you have npm run, start up and running and then if I go back and refresh attempt block recovery,
let me actually delete that instance of the block.
Add in a new fresh instance and say Learn more, dot, dot, dot, click save by refresh.
Cool.
Even though I didn't choose a link value, the button still appears.
And then if I did want to link to something, for example, if I wanted to link to my About US page
confirmed link, go ahead and save that refresh.
Perfect.
When I hover over, it might not show up in the screen recording, but in the bottom left corner I can
see that it's pointing to Slash about us.
Cool.
Now that we fixed that bug, let's actually work on the color picker feature to get started.
Let's focus on how we would add a right hand menu option.
So in other words, when you click on the button and then if you have this icon selected right to have
the right hand menu, we would want an area right about here that you click on to change the color.
So to make that happen up at the top of our generic button dot JS file, we need to import a few things
from WordPress.
So first of all, on the line where we're importing items from block editor.
So on that line of code, let's add something maybe right before block controls, we want to add something
called inspector controls comma.
Okay.
Then on this line where we're importing items from components, let's add a comma, panel, body, comma,
panel, row, comma, color palette.
For some reason it's really easy for me to misspell the word palette.
So it's one L but two TS.
Okay, now that we've imported these for new items, let's go use them.
So down in our edit component, let's look for our JS X, maybe right after the closing block controls
tags.
So right here let's add in inspector controls.
Oops, I misspelled that.
There should be a t the opening and closing.
So Inspector controls inside of Inspector Controls.
Let's have a panel body.
So panel body on the opening tag.
Let's give it a prop of title.
Say title equals color.
You could make up anything but this makes sense, writes the color chooser.
Let's also give it a prop of initial open equals curly brackets.
True inside of panel body.
Let's nest a panel row.
So panel row.
And just for now, before we actually add the color picker, just to test that this is working, you
can simply add the word hello, let's give that a save and test it out.
So if I refresh the template editor.
And click on our button.
Perfect.
In the right hand sidebar, we have this color option.
So now, instead of the word hello, we just want a color picker tool.
So back in our code.
Let's get rid of this.
Hello?
Drop back down and we'll just have color palette, self-closing.
And now let's give it a few basic props.
So colors equals curly brackets.
Let's also give it a prop of value equals curly brackets.
Finally, on change equals curly brackets.
Let's walk through each of these.
So we'll start with colors.
You give this an array of colors that you want your users to be able to choose between.
So let's point towards a variable that doesn't exist, but we can go create it.
Let's make up a name of our colors.
Then if we scroll up just a little bit above the return line.
So still in our edit component function, just above return, we can say contrast our colors equals
an array in the array.
Each color is an object, so you give it a name, let's say blue, right?
And then you give it a property of color.
And that's the actual color code.
So hash tag for the fictional university blue.
It's zero, D three, b66.
Let's set up orange and dark orange so you can just copy that line.
Be sure to have a comma.
After that.
One color would be orange.
The code is 964b comma finally pasted in.
Let's set up dark dash orange.
I'm choosing these names because these correspond to the six class names that I've already set up.
We'll talk more about my six s approach and how I'm working with colors a little bit later in the video.
But for now, the dark orange code is f95738.
Cool.
Let's go back down to the color palette component and talk about the value.
So this would just be the attribute that stores the color choice.
So imagine you choose a color you hit save on the template or blogpost, and then a week later you reopen
that page.
Well, we need to tell the color palette which value is being used so it knows which one to select or
highlight, as if that's your choice that you've already made.
So I would just go up into our block attributes.
So attributes we have a text size link object.
Let's just add a comma.
Add one more.
Let's call it color name.
I'm totally making this up.
You could literally name the attribute pizza or unicorn.
Or an obvious choice would simply be color.
But I'll explain a bit later on what I'm going to name, color, name.
It's just my own personal preference and approach.
But anyways, that would be a type of a string of text.
Anyways, this is what we would use for the value prop.
So if we go back down into our color palette value, this would be props dot attributes, dot color
name.
Finally, let's set up the on change value a bit later in the video.
We're actually going to have a little bit of logic in this function.
So let's point towards a separate function just to stay organized instead of having too much code right
here in the JS acts.
So let's make up a function name.
How about.
Handle color change.
Let's go create a function with this matching name.
So right up above our return line it's a function handle, color change, parentheses, curly brackets.
Now, regardless of the way that I want to work with human readable CSS class names, we need to ask
ourselves, well, what does the color palette actually return when you change the color you've chosen?
In other words, we need to have a parameter here, right?
You could call it X, but what it's actually going to give us is a new color code value.
So whichever color the user clicks on to select, it's just going to return the actual color code value
into our function here.
So why don't we call it color code now?
We can do anything we want with this color code.
But just to set up a quick proof of concept of how everything works together, let's just update our
attribute called color name to include the color code.
Even though that's not what I personally want, I think once we visualize this in the database, then
I can explain the reasoning for why I'm doing things the way I'm doing them.
But we would just say props dot set attributes an object.
Let's change the color name to simply be color code.
So in reality, we would want to set this to something like blue or orange or dark orange.
But before we get too many steps ahead of ourselves, that's not what the color palette is going to
give us.
It's going to give us the color code.
So just to make sure that this is working, let's visualize it in the database.
So with all of this put together, let's click save, make sure your NPM run start task is running and
let's go give it a test.
So if I refresh.
I click on the button.
Perfect.
There are the three fictional university colors.
So imagine I choose dark orange.
Now, obviously, we have not set up any connection to the way that you actually display the button
here.
Right.
We haven't connected the dots to our access yet.
But let's just go ahead and save this to prove to ourselves that it's at least being stored in the database
and the correct value is being selected.
So if we refresh this page, I select selected Dark Orange, by the way, just for a test if I click
on the button.
Perfect.
So it's remembering it's looking at that attribute.
It remembers that I chose the dark orange value.
Now let's go look at our database.
So if we dig into posts, select data, go to the last page, go to the very last item.
Click edit.
Here's our banner block.
Towards the bottom.
We should see our button.
Yes.
Generic button.
Aha.
Color name.
And as you might have guessed, there is the hexadecimal color code for the dark orange that I selected.
At this point.
For some of you watching this lesson, you can consider the lesson completed and move on to the next
lesson.
In other words, you learned how to add the color palette tool and you've learned how to save the hexadecimal
color code value.
And really, it's up to you to use that however you see fit.
So just a fair warning.
The remainder of this video lesson is now just all of my own personal preference and my own personal
philosophy.
Essentially, I don't want to store the hexadecimal color code.
I want an extra layer of abstraction.
Let me explain what I mean.